# Elementary - Calculus

Of course, as we all know, the One True Calculus Book is

#### Spivak, *Calculus*

This is a book everyone should read.  If you don't know calculus and have the time, read it and
do all the exercises.  Parts 1 and 2 are where I finally learned what a limit was, after three
years of bad-calculus-book "explanations".  The whole thing is the most coherently envisioned
and explained treatment of one-variable calculus I've seen (you can see throughout that Spivak
*has a vision* of what he's trying to teach).

The book has flaws, of course.  The exercises get a little monotonous because Spivak has a few
tricks he likes to use repeatedly, and perhaps too few of them deal with applications (but you
can find that kind of exercise in any book).  Also, he sometimes avoids sophistication at the
expense of clarity, as in the proofs of Three Hard Theorems in chapter 8 (where a lot of
epsilon-pushing takes the place of the words "compact" and "connected").  Nevertheless, this is
the best calculus book overall, and I've seen it do a wonderful job of brain rectification on
many people.

**[Pete Clark]** Yes, it's good, although perhaps more of the affection comes from more
advanced students who flip back through it?  Most of my exposure to this book comes from
tutoring and grading for 161, but I seriously believe that working as many problems as possible
(it must be acknowledged that many of them are difficult for first year students, and a few of
them are *really* hard!) is invaluable for developing the mathematical maturity and epsilonic
technique that no math major should be without.

Other calculus books worthy of note, and why:

#### Spivak, *The hitchhiker's guide to calculus*

Just what the title says.  I haven't read it, but a lot of 130s students love it.

#### Hardy, *A course of pure mathematics*

[MR 94c:00002](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=94c%3A00002)

#### Courant, *Differential and integral calculus*

[MR 90e:26001a-b](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=90e%3A26001a)

These two are for "culture".  They are classic treatments of the calculus, from back when a
math book was rigorous, period.  Hardy focuses more on conceptual elegance and development
(beginning by building up **R**).  Courant goes further into applications than is usual
(including as much about Fourier analysis as you can do without Lebesgue integration).  They're
old, and old books are hard to read, but usually worth it.  (Remember what Abel said about
reading the masters and not the pupils!)

#### Apostol, *Calculus*

[MR 35 #5554](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=35+%235554)
[MR 40 #1542](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=40+%231542)

This is "the other" modern rigorous calculus text.  Reads like an upper-level text:
lemma-theorem-proof-corollary.  Dry but comprehensive (the second volume includes linear
algebra and multivariable calculus).

#### Janusz, *Calculus*

The worst calculus book ever written.  This was the 150s text in 1994-95; it tries to give a
Spivak-style rigorous presentation in colorful mainstream-calculus-book format and reading
level.  Horrible.  Take a look at it to see how badly written a mathematics book can be.
