# Advanced - algebraic geometry

#### Harris, *Algebraic geometry: a first course*

Algebraic geometry is a hard subject to learn, and here is as good a place as any.  It has a
very different flavor from any other kind of geometry we study in this day and age: lots of
results about curves having cusps and intersecting hyperplanes three times.  Harris presents a
body of classical material (projective varieties over an algebraically closed field of
characteristic zero) through analysis of many, many examples, much like his representation
theory book.  Be warned that much is left out, and you develop your first familiarity with the
subject by figuring out what he's really saying.  You will also need to be quite comfortable
with multilinear algebra.  But Harris has a great expository style, and there's a lot of good
stuff in all those examples.

#### Shafarevich, *Basic algebraic geometry* 1

This may be a better place to learn for the first time, as Shafarevich assumes that the
language and ways of thought of algebraic geometry are alien to the reader.  He proceeds
briskly, though, with fewer stops to look around for interesting examples of varieties
(ameliorated somewhat by the copious exercises).  To make a serious attempt at learning
algebraic geometry, you'll probably need both.  Shafarevich, like Harris, teaches some of the
commutative algebra along the way.

#### Mumford, *Algebraic geometry I: complex projective varieties*

This book is superficially similar to the previous two (varieties, no schemes) but it's written
for mature mathematicians: it's an expository monograph, not a textbook.  As such, it's a Good
Book in the abstract, but not all that useful to someone looking for guidance.  You will need
to be solidly comfortable with commutative algebra to begin reading.

#### Griffiths/Harris, *Principles of algebraic geometry*

A huge, sprawling, beautiful, inspiring, infuriating book.  It should be called *Principles of
analytic geometry*, because although the questions are algebraic-geometric, the objects and
methods considered are all complex-analytic.  This is algebraic geometry over **C**, the
classical case and the one in which existing theory is richest.  It's a beautiful and hugely
sophisticated theory.  G/H treat a vast quantity of it in eight hundred pages, and the
treatment is still so compressed that many proofs are quite elliptical.  Filling in the gaps
requires (or develops) a great deal of maturity.  If you're interested in any aspect of
algebraic or differential geometry, you should not miss this book--but don't expect any of it
to be easy.

#### Hartshorne, *Algebraic geometry*

Hugh, my algebra TA, described Hartshorne as "the schemes book for the more manly algebraic
geometer".  It's the standard exposition of scheme theory, the Grothendieck remaking of
algebraic geometry, and it's legendarily difficult, not only the text but the many exercises.
The preface to Shafarevich's English edition remarks that "many graduate students (by no means
all) can work very hard on Chapters Two and Three of Hartshorne for a year or more, and still
know more or less nothing at the end of it." But, as with most legendarily difficult books, it
has its own awesome beauty, and the diligent reader is rewarded.  I'm not sure Hartshorne
belongs in an undergraduate bibliography, but I did say "difficulty level unbounded above"...
