# Advanced - Algebraic topology

#### Massey, *A basic course in algebraic topology*

Massey wrote two earlier algebraic topology books, *Algebraic topology: a first course*, and
*Singular homology theory*.  This book is their union, minus the last chapter or two of the
first book.  Thus the first half of the book is a nice, well-grounded treatment of the
fundamental group and covering spaces, at a very elementary level (Massey fills in all the
material on free groups and free products of groups).  The second half is a course on homology
theory which is, well, boring.  Too slow, too elementary, too talky, and not even very
geometric for all that.  It'll do, but it's not lovable.

**[PC]** For better or worse, this will probably be your first textbook on algebraic topology.
I know Chris doesn't like it very much.  The homotopy theory part is fine, but I think the
homology/cohomology part could be improved... somehow.

#### Fulton, *Algebraic topology: a first course*

**[PC]** I own this too, and it's a pleasant book: an algebraic topology book for math students
who aren't especially interested in algebraic topology.  No, really.  I do like algebraic
topology, but this book appeals to me too because it takes a holistic and geometric approach to
the material; after all, algebraic topology is supposed to be for proving stuff about manifolds
and complexes (and other topological spaces of interest, if any), not about chain complexes.
There's a lot of interesting stuff here, but because Fulton often contents himself with "the
simplest nontrivial case" for fundamental groups, homology, etc., the presentation is less than
complete.  Great supplementary reading and good treatment of branched covering spaces.

#### Bott/Tu, *Differential forms in algebraic topology*

This book made algebraic topology make sense to me!  Bott/Tu approach cohomology and homotopy
theory through the de Rham complex, which means the calculations are all easy to understand and
give insight into the geometric situation.  The book is not a first course in algebraic
topology, as it doesn't cover nearly all the standard topics.  What it does cover is
beautifully clear, motivated and, well, sensical.  They even give a good excuse for spectral
sequences, which in my book is a major accomplishment.

#### Spanier, *Algebraic topology*

Spanier is the maximally unreadable book on algebraic topology.  It's bursting with an
unbelievable amount of material, all stated in the greatest possible generality and naturality,
with the least possible motivation and explanation.  But it's awe-inspiring, and every so often
forms a useful reference.  I'm glad I have it, but most people regret ever opening it.

#### Rotman, *An introduction to algebraic topology*

**[BR]** You didn't mention this one.  I think an appropriate nickname for this one is "Spanier
Lite" or maybe "Diet Spanier", or better still, "Spanier for Dummies." Rotman was actually a
student of the infamous Spanier (and also of Saunders Mac Lane for that matter!).  Basically,
he stole the table of contents from Spanier's book and tried to write a text that was much less
dense and general, but more in depth and more categorical than, say, Massey.  I've only read
through the first 3 chapters, but anyone who is totally frustrated with having to choose
between ultra-elementary and ultra-advanced algebraic topology books should look here.

#### Stillwell, *Classical topology and combinatorial group theory*

**[PC]** This book is great!  No book on this list coincides with my own mathematical esthetics
like this one: I checked this book out this summer while I was doing research on surface
topology and read it cover to cover: you'll see how geometry relates to topology relates to
group theory.  I wish this was my first algebraic topology book, because it's full of exciting
theorems about surfaces, three-manifolds, knots, simple loops, geodesics--in other words, it's
rippling with geometric/topological content intead of commutative diagrams.  Let me also
recommend Stillwell's book *Geometry of surfaces*, along the same lines.

#### Bredon, *Topology and geometry*

Don't be fooled by the word "geometry" in the title; there are two chapters on basic
differential topology followed by the best modern course in basic algebraic topology I've seen.
Differential geometry and Lie groups supply the occasional example, but there are no metrics to
be found!  Lots and lots of exercises.

**[PC]** This one gets the Ben Blander seal of approval.  From what I've seen, it's an
excellent compendium of graduate-level geometry and topology powered by good examples and
(again!) actual geometric content.
