# Advanced - Commutative and homological algebra

#### Atiyah/Macdonald, *Introduction to commutative algebra*

#### Matsumura, *Commutative ring theory*

#### Eisenbud, *Commutative algebra with a view toward algebraic geometry*

As Pete Clark said, these three are the standard references now, in roughly increasing order of
difficulty.  Atiyah/Macdonald is short, to the point, and mostly non-homological.  Matsumura is
the "big Rudin" of commutative algebra: a clear systematic exposition from first principles.
Eisenbud is a huge, sprawling monster of a book, which includes almost everything... somewhere.
All three have many good exercises, and they complement each other well.  Eisenbud is the
newest and the most complete reference (and, as a specific objective, includes every result
used in Hartshorne's algebraic geometry book), but it can be difficult to wade through so much
material to find what you want.  Atiyah/Macdonald is probably the best introductory text--or
try Kaplansky's book below.

#### Kaplansky, *Commutative rings*

I list this one separately because it's, well, different.  Like Atiyah/Macdonald, this is a
small book which takes up commutative algebra from the beginning, largely without homological
methods.  However, the pace is much brisker, and many results are stated in somewhat
idiosyncratic form, since Kaplansky resolutely avoids algebraic-geometric language.  He
unfortunately refers to the third part of his notes *Fields and rings* (above) for the
homological results he does need.

#### Weibel, *An introduction to homological algebra*

Without this book I would probably have failed the second half of Kottwitz's Math 327 class.
The first half is a systematic exposition of homological algebra, more modern than the standard
references: the aim stated is to bring "current technology" in homological algebra to casual
users from other disciplines.  The second half is devoted to a group of applications, including
cohomology of groups (the lifesaver in 327), Lie algebra homology and cohomology, and other
stuff.  It's reasonably well written and careful in notation (a very important thing in this
field).  Weibel also takes care not to let too much abstract nonsense go by without an example
or three of what in the hell structures he might be talking about.
