# Advanced - Differential equations

#### Taylor, *Partial differential equations I: basic theory*

I finally learned a little about PDEs, and this book is the first one I'd recommend to any pure
mathematicians interested.  It's the first volume of a monumental three-volume series covering
a wide range of topics in analysis and geometry (yes, Atiyah-Singer is in volume II).  Volume I
contains the foundational material on Fourier analysis, distributions and Sobolev spaces,
application to the classical second-order PDE (Laplace, heat, wave, et cetera), as well as a
handy introductory chapter containing all you really need to know about ordinary differential
equations!  This list of topics doesn't do the book justice, however, since it's *packed* with
interesting little applications and side notes, in the text and the copious exercises.  The
general consensus among MIT graduate students is that this book, like Federer and
Griffiths/Harris, has everything in the world in it.

#### Evans, *Partial differential equations*

This is a big, fat, talky introduction to PDE for pure mathematicians.  It slights some
theoretical topics (Fourier transforms and distributions) in favor of an unusually full
treatment of nonlinear PDE; the author claims that "we know too much about linear equations and
not enough about nonlinear ones," and his preferences are evident throughout.  But it is a good
book, written with careful attention to pedagogy and making things make sense to someone new to
the field.  I like it as a textbook, but Taylor is a better first choice for reference.

#### Hörmander, *The analysis of linear partial differential operators* I

Here is the book Evans was complaining about; Hörmander's four-volume masterwork contains
everything we knew about linear PDE up to the mid-seventies.  The first volume is available as
a paperback study edition, and makes a good secondary reference on distributions and Fourier
transforms.  I hope someday to understand the last two chapters, which introduce something
called "microlocal analysis" that currently has me fascinated.  The book shows little mercy for
the reader; distribution theory has some very hard technicalities and Hörmander proceeds pretty
briskly.  But it's sometimes nice to have a truly definitive reference.

#### Olver, *Equivalence, invariants and symmetry*

Another book on geometric objects arising from invariance conditions, this one more focused on
differential equations.  People confused about why the equations of physics look the way they
do might try it.
