# Advanced - Differential geometry

#### Spivak, *A comprehensive introduction to differential geometry*, 3-5

The latter three volumes form the 'Topics' section of Spivak's masterwork; he treats a
succession of more advanced theories within differential geometry, with his customary flair and
the occasional stop for generalities.  The last chapter is entitled "The generalized
Gauss-Bonnet theorem and what it means for mankind", so that gives you an idea of Spivak's take
on geometry.  Sadly again, there are no exercises, but the annotated bibliography at the end of
volume 5 is immense.

#### Helgason, *Differential geometry, Lie groups, and symmetric spaces*

The title is a little bit of a misnomer, as this book is really about the differential geometry
*of* Lie groups and symmetric spaces, with an occasional necessary stop for Lie algebra theory.
The first chapter is a rapid if rather old-fashioned (no bundles; tensors are modules over the
ring of smooth functions) course in basic differential geometry.  The rest of the book
describes the geometric properties of symmetric spaces (roughly, manifolds with an involutive
isometry at each point) in depth.  I find the material interesting in itself, and as a lead-in
to Helgason's other fascinating book (above).  There are many exercises, and *solutions* at the
end!

#### Kobayashi/Nomizu, *Foundations of differential geometry*

K/N is the standard reference on differential geometry from the sophisticated point of view of
frame bundles.  The emphasis here is on 'reference', unfortunately.  I think it's the only book
anyone actually uses to look up stuff about principal bundles when they need it, but it's not
written as a textbook.  The notes and bibliography are very nice, however.

#### Rosenberg, *The Laplacian on a Riemannian manifold*

**[BB]** A different approach to geometry, through analysis.  Lots of exercises integrated
critically into the text; proves the Hodge theorem using the heat kernel.  Introduces analysis
on manifolds.  I've only gotten through the first chapter and I've skimmed the rest, so I can't
say too much more, but it looks interesting.

#### do Carmo, *Riemannian geometry*

**[BB]** A readable and interesting introduction to the subject.  It covers some interesting
material, such as the sphere theorem and Preissman's theorem about fundamental groups of
manifolds of negative curvature, and much more.

#### Boothby, *Introduction to differentiable manifolds and Riemannian geometry*

I don't know why everyone likes this book so much; maybe because they managed to find it and it
contains what they need?  It's just another manifolds book, really, and less well-written (lots
of annoying coordinates) than most.
