# Advanced - Differential topology

#### Hirsch, *Differential topology*

**[Pete Clark]** A solid introduction to differential topology, but maybe a bit bogged down in
technical details: a theme of the subject is that arbitrary maps can be approximated by very
nice maps under the right conditions.  Hirsch has a chapter which he investigates conditions
*other* than "the right ones," and comes up with some sharpish estimates about when you can
approximate what by what.  This is sort of interesting, but seems distinctly antithetical to
the spirit of "soft" analysis which runs through my veins and the veins of differential
topologists everywhere.  Why bother?  I own the book, and there's some good stuff in it, but in
retrospect I'd rather own Guillemin and Pollack, which proceeds a bit more geometrically and
far less rigorously.  The rigor is optional and can be filled in later.

**[Chris Jeris]** I agree with Pete's assessment of the book, but not with his opinions on
rigor.  Hirsch is a good second differential topology book; after you see how all the
touchy-feely stuff goes (move it a little bit to make it transverse), read Hirsch to see how it
actually works, and how a nice theoretical framework can be constructed around the soft
geometric ideas.  I think it's indispensable to see how things are *done*.

#### Lang, *Differential and Riemannian manifolds*

Another Serge Lang book, which *also* contains a proof of the inverse function theorem in
Banach spaces (sigh).  It's not really human-readable, and I list it mostly because it was the
first manifolds book I blundered across in 209.  But it has a nice proof of the ODE existence
theorem, too.

#### Warner, *Foundations of differentiable manifolds and Lie groups*

This is a curious selection of material: besides the basic theory of manifolds and differential
forms, there is a long chapter on Lie groups, a proof of de Rham's theorem on the equivalence
of de Rham cohomology to Cech and topological cohomology theories, and a proof of the Hodge
theorem for Riemannian manifolds.  It's convenient to have all this stuff here in a single
book, but Warner's notation annoys me terribly, and you can find better treatments of any one
topic elsewhere.
