# Advanced - Functional analysis

#### Conway, *A course in functional analysis*

A grad student I knew from 325 saw me leaving the bookstore with this book, and told me it was
terrible, that he'd hated it at Dartmouth.  I didn't believe him at the time, but now I see
what he meant.  As in his complex analysis book, Conway develops functional analysis slowly and
carefully, without excessive generalization (locally convex spaces are a side topic) and with
proofs in great detail, except for the ones he omits.  This time around, though, the detail is
excruciating (many functional analysis proofs consist of a mass of boring calculation
surrounding one main idea) and the notation is simply awful.  (The fact that Hilbert spaces are
often function spaces is *not* an excuse to use *'f'* to denote a general element of a Hilbert
space.)  The book is not without virtues, but it goes so slowly that I can't see which results
are important.

#### Dunford/Schwartz, *Linear operators*

After all these years, I think Dunford/Schwartz is still the bible of functional analysis; the
analysts who did all the exercises in Kelley to learn topology tried to do all the exercises in
here, or at least volume 1, to learn about operators.  They all failed, although one of the
exercises turned into Langlands's doctoral thesis.  D/S is too old to be easily read now, but
worth looking at for culture.

#### Kadison/Ringrose, *Fundamentals of the theory of operator algebras*

No, I'm not turning into an operator algebraist (although I might be doing noncommutative
geometry some day).  The first three-fifths of volume 1 contains a much better treatment of
basic functional analysis than I've seen elsewhere, certainly slanted toward operator algebras,
but clearly written and *interesting* (a quality lacking in many functional analysis texts).
The book is known for its collection of challenging exercises, which were so popular that K/R
wrote up complete solutions to the two volumes and published them as volumes 3 and 4.
Unfortunately volume 1 is missing from Eckhart Library.

#### Kreyszig, *Introductory functional analysis with applications*

Here is a book to look at for a lot of applications and motivation for functional analysis,
without a lot of technicalities.  I've only looked at it a little bit; it seems to be written
more like a physics book, substituting a plausibility argument for an occasional tricky
technical proof, but spending a lot of time in explanation.  Try it if you have trouble seeing
what's really different about the infinite-dimensional case.

#### Zimmer, *Essential Results of Functional Analysis*

**[Ben Blander]** It's a U of C published blue book, and is extremely concise and quickly
presents most of the stuff one needs to know.  It's certainly not easy--Chapter 0 presents weak
derivatives--but it's a good second course.
