# Advanced - Group theory and representations

#### Alperin/Bell, *Groups and representations*

If you're not into finite groups or their representations, this book contains exactly what you
need to know about them.  After a quick run-through of what you probably already know, it
treats matrix groups (Alperin, like Artin, insists that these are the real examples of finite
groups, and I agree), p-groups, composition series, and then basic representation theory via
Wedderburn's structure theorem for semisimple algebras.  I learned a lot from the matrix-groups
chapter.  The exposition is nearly as clean and clear as Rudin's, and there are many good
exercises (some deliberately too hard, and none marked for difficulty).

**[PC]** Yep, a solid text for an intro course to group theory (at the graduate level).  It's
designed so that no more and no less than the entire book gets covered in Math 325, so unlike
most math books, I have read this from cover to cover.

#### Rotman, *Introduction to the theory of groups*

This is a group theorist's group theory book, although it contains no representation theory at
all.  What I've seen of it looks good (the diagrams on the inside covers are neat, although I
have no idea what they mean).  But I don't like group theory that much, so I can't say more.

**[BR]** This was my favorite reference for Murthy's 257 class. Starting with the simplest
notions of permutations, Rotman is able to construct everything you ever wanted to know about
group theory. If you're just looking for a clear, readable exposition and elegant proofs of the
isomorphism theorems or Sylow's theorems, this is a great place to look.  And if by some random
chance you have need to learn what a wreath product is, you won't need to buy a new book.

#### Gorenstein, *Finite groups*

**[BB]** The final word on finite groups prior to 1970.  Everything is in here.  Very hard
reading for a non-specialist, but a good reference for a serious group-theorist.  I think
Glauberman has it memorized.

#### Humphreys, *Introduction to Lie algebras and representation theory*

A skinny little book which runs briskly through the basic theorems on Lie algebras and their
representations.  Note that it says Lie algebras, not Lie groups; there are no smooth manifolds
here!  There are four copies in Eckhart Library and they're always all checked out, so it must
be pretty good; it helps that the alternative works (like Jacobson, *Lie algebras*) are all
very old, thus hard to read.

#### Fulton/Harris, *Representation theory: a first course*

This is a beautifully concrete introduction to Lie groups and their representations.  "First
course" in Joe Harris-speak means that the book is driven largely by examination of concrete
examples and their characteristics: in fact, the first quarter of the book covers
representations of finite groups, as an extended "concrete example" motivating the Lie theory.
Nevertheless the book is not easy reading, and you will need a lot of multilinear algebra and
some readiness to fill in glossed-over details.  But at the end, you will know a lot about why
the more advanced general theory behaves as it does.  Physicists with a high mathematics
tolerance ought to check this one out.
