# Advanced - Number theory

#### Weil, *Basic number theory*

**[Pete Clark]** Um, I saw this book in the Coop, was intrigued by the title, and opened it up
to a discussion of Haar measure!  Not suitable for a first course in number theory, or a second
course in number theory, or... It's really hard.  Maybe someday I'll get to it.

**[Chris Jeris]** It's not *that* bad, just... brisk.  Weil was another of the original
Bourbakistes, and his approach to algebraic number theory reflects their devotion to proper
foundation: to study global (algebraic number) fields, one must first study local (locally
compact) fields, and to study these one begins with topology and measure, etc.  I think it's a
great book, but it's true you won't learn any number theory you don't already know.  You'll
discover that you hadn't known what you thought you knew, but now you do.

#### Narkiewicz, *Introduction to the elementary and analytic theory of algebraic numbers*

This is a huge yellow brick which looks more like a dictionary than a math book.  Narkiewicz
gives a careful exposition of basic algebraic number theory (in somewhat old-fashioned
notation) with more emphasis on the role of (both complex and p-adic) analytic methods than
usual.  I used it to learn some things about character theory on the p-adics.  Notable for its
extensive historical notes, unsolved problems lists, and truly immense bibliography.

#### Silverman, *The arithmetic of elliptic curves*

Silverman's two books (the second is *Advanced topics in the arithmetic of elliptic curves*)
are the standard texts in the subject, and from what I've seen they deserve it.  You will need
to be thoroughly comfortable with basic algebra and number theory to pick up the first one,
however.  If you want to learn something about elliptic curves without so much algebraic
background, try Koblitz, *Introduction to elliptic curves and modular forms* (but brush up your
complex analysis) or Cassels, *Lectures on elliptic curves* (and be prepared for a short book
that doesn't hold your hand much).

#### Koblitz, *p-adic numbers, p-adic analysis, and zeta functions*

**[Pete Clark]** Interesting, and probably a good place to read up on p-adics.

**[Chris Jeris]** I still want to know what a zeta function really is.  Koblitz is a good
writer, and he'd probably tell me if I read his book...

#### Fr√∂hlich/Taylor, *Algebraic number theory*

**[Pete Clark]** This is the book that I'd love to find time to read from cover to cover.  It's
advanced in the sense that it's definitely for would-be algebraic number theorists: they cover
a lot of ground and basically pride themselves on doing stuff that the other introductory texts
don't. For example, they actually talk about cubic, biquadratic and sextic number fields, and
complain in their introduction that many number theorists never acquire enough technique to
work with anything but quadratic fields.  But in terms of prerequisites, it presupposes a
*solid* knowledge of undergraduate algebra, including an acquaintance with modules.  I'm biased
because I love algebraic number theory, but this book jumped onto my shelf above all the
others.  There is just so much great stuff in here, and it is written about with enthusiasm and
clarity.  Only problem is the confusing and oppressive letters that they use for ideals; what's
up with that?

**[Chris Jeris]** What, the lower-case Fraktur?  It's the old standard (grin).

