# Advanced - Ring theory

#### Kaplansky, *Fields and rings*

Actually this is three little sheaves (coherent sheaves, even) of lecture notes, bound as a
book: one on Galois theory, one on the classical structure theory of (noncommutative) rings,
and one on homological dimension theory of rings.  Kaplansky's exposition is classic, and for
people who (like me) didn't really get Galois theory out of 259, this isn't a bad place to
learn it.  He has a similar volume called *Lie algebras and locally compact groups*, which is
half structure theory of Lie algebras and half (of all things) a proof that a locally compact
topological group has a unique analytic Lie group structure.

#### Anderson/Fuller, *Rings and categories of modules*

Noncommutative rings have a homological theory very different in flavor from that of
commutative rings, namely the structure theory of the categories **R-mod** and **mod-R** of
left and right modules.  I don't really know why I bought this book, because I find the
material itself pretty boring.  But it's a good exposition, contains category-oriented proofs
of most of the classical noncommutative ring theory (as opposed to Lam's book below), and I did
use it to give a Math Club talk last year.

#### Morandi, *Field and Galois theory*

This is an exceedingly gentle but comprehensive course in field theory (a lot more material
than the field-theory chapter of a general algebra text).  Morandi goes very slowly, and you
could probably cover most of the proofs and do them yourself; the beginning exercises are too
easy, but there are some good ones too.  You might not find the material interesting enough to
sustain such length of presentation; if so, look at Kaplansky instead.  But it's a good
reference if you just need field theory to do something else with (commutative algebra, say).

#### Lam, *A first course in noncommutative rings*

This is the ring-theory book I should have gotten when I was looking at ring-theory books.
Informed by a huge number of examples (many of which I never would have guessed could exist),
Lam lays out a beautiful and detailed exposition of the more concrete parts of the theory of
noncommutative rings as it exists today.  (Some more sophisticated areas, such as the theory of
central simple algebras which Jacobson treats in *Basic algebra* II, are left to a planned
second course, now published as *Lectures on rings and modules*.)  Lots of exercises, mostly
not too hard.  He avoids category-theoretic methods for the most part, which saves the book
from turning into the kind of functor catalog that Anderson/Fuller sometimes becomes.

