# Intermediate - Complex analysis

#### Ahlfors, *Complex analysis*

[MR 80c:30001](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=80c%3A30001)

Ahlfors has been the standard text for complex function theory for quite some time.  I like it,
but he's very classical and concrete in outlook: nary a function space or a norm in the whole
book.  The exposition is a classic, though.

**[PC]** Everyone lists it; do people actually read it?  I'd use Conway instead.

#### Conway, *Functions of one complex variable* I

[MR 80c:30003](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=80c%3A30003)

This book starts very, very slow and easy, so if you're rusty on metric spaces or real-variable
theory you have no need to worry.  Conway's style is to prove things very thoroughly, but
relegate the occasional proof to the exercises.  The text is more modern than Ahlfors; Conway
proves Runge's theorem using Banach space techniques (well, he's an operator theorist).  I like
the book more for this reason, but I finally sold my copy because the slow pace got to me.

**[PC]** I like the book, but I hear your criticisms.  The chapter on convergence in the
compact-open topology, arguably the most important topic in the whole book, is marred by the
fact that he mixes metric space theory which is perfectly general with the theory of complex
functions.  His chapter on Riemann surfaces sort of annoys me too, for the same reason.  Maybe
just a bit of reorganization would improve this book.  But he covers all the theorems that an
undergraduate needs to know (and a little more), and he does it without using fancy machinery
of any sort: no fundamental groups, no differential forms, no deep theorems from real analysis.
[CJ: The Hahn-Banach theorem isn't a deep theorem from real analysis?]  Still, I can't help but
think that the great American complex analysis book has yet to be written.

(2014: It was written in 2003, by Elias Stein.  A review will be added.)

#### Narasimhan, *Complex analysis in one variable*

[MR 2002e:30001](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=2002e%3A30001)

As we might expect from the famed freshman-eating Narasimhan, this book is much quicker-paced
and covers more topics than either of the two above (including a chapter on several variables).
Sadly, there are no exercises, but the book is a good reference work. (Note: Exercises were
added to the second edition by the junior author Yves Nievergelt.)

#### Rudin, *Real and complex analysis*

[MR 88k:00002](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=88k%3A00002)

Rudin's second half is a treatment of complex analysis even more modern than Conway, but
resolutely non-geometric.  I never really got along with it, for the second reason; also, the
selection of topics after the canonical material feels a little random.  (Rudin's aim was to
bring out the unifying threads in real and complex analysis; thus there is a chapter on Banach
algebras near the end.)  However, the style is still crystalline, and the exercises are still
excellent.  Best for confirmed analysts.

#### Palka, *An introduction to complex function theory*

[MR 92b:30001](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=92b%3A30001)

**[YU]** The author follows Ahlfors's approach and thus the book is very geometric.  After
reading this book, I began to like complex function theory.  It contains lots of interesting
exercises as well as routine ones.
