# Intermediate - Differential geometry

#### Guillemin/Pollack, *Differential topology*

[MR 50 #1276](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=50+%231276)

I didn't understand transversality at all until I saw this book.  It's a very geometric (as
opposed to formalistic), down-to-earth introduction to some of the most mystical areas of
smooth manifold theory: transversality and intersection theory.  Abstraction is avoided
(manifolds are defined as embedded in Euclidean space, which annoys me just a bit), but without
hand-waving important distinctions (they are careful to point out that for noncompact
manifolds, an injective immersion need not be an embedding, that is, proper too).  The last
chapter treats integration and Stokes's theorem, but that's not what anyone reads the book for.
Beautifully written, and fills an important hole in Spivak volume 1.

#### do Carmo, *Differential geometry of curves and surfaces*

[MR 52 #15253](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=52+%2315253)

We used this book for Corlette's differential geometry seminar two years ago (293).  I didn't
like it all that much because do Carmo is careful to keep the book to a post-advanced-calculus
level: everything takes place in R^3, no vector bundles, lots of componentwise calculations.
Nevertheless it's a nice treatment of the classical theory of curves and surfaces in space.
Read it if you want to know about the Gauss map or the two fundamental forms, but don't want to
work all the way through Spivak volume 2.

#### Spivak, *A comprehensive introduction to differential geometry*, 1

[MR 82g:53003a](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=82g%3A53003a)

**[Pete Clark]** Volume 1 is the best introduction to smooth manifold theory and differential
topology that I know of.  Every chapter of this book has come in handy for me at one time or
another.  Ben and I like to describe the book as "locally readable": his exposition is very
careful, but sometimes he takes too damn long to explain a single concept.  Luckily, despite
Spivak's efforts to the contrary, you can flip around and read chapter by chapter, and I
recommend this.  There is so much good stuff in here.

**[Chris Jeris]** Buy it and read it over and over and over.  Don't skip the exercises because
that's where he puts all the freaky examples.  It's true that sometimes he talks too much, but
for the loving detail in which he lays out difficult concepts, he can be forgiven.

#### Spivak, *A comprehensive introduction to differential geometry*, 2

[MR 52g:53003b](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=82g%3A53003b)

As Spivak puts it at the beginning, "Volume 1 dealt with the 'differential' part; in this
volume we finally get down to some geometry." Volume 2 treats the classical theory of curves
and surfaces using the modern machinery developed in the first volume, which makes it (for me)
a more comfortable read than do Carmo.  Spivak is careful to motivate everything historically;
surface theory is introduced by a long walk through Gauss's *General investigations of curved
surfaces* (you should really have a copy of it to read this book), and the second half of the
book goes through the (convoluted) stages of evolution of the definition of a connection.  Not
easy reading but every bit as rewarding as Volume 1.  Unfortunately there are almost none of
the wonderful exercises which characterize the first volume.
