# Intermediate - Number theory

#### Ireland/Rosen, *A classical introduction to modern number theory*

[MR 92e:11001](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=92e%3A11001)

The first half is a coherent, systematic development of elementary number theory, assuming the
basics of algebra.  In the second half the authors explore more advanced topics of an
algebraic/geometric flavor (zeta functions, L-functions, algebraic number fields, elliptic
curves).  Lots of exercises.  This book helped make number theory make sense to me.  You will
find many introductory number theory texts pitched below I/R, but if you can read I/R, ignore
the easy ones.

**[Pete Clark]** Yes, this is the standard and to my knowledge the best number theory text that
is modern, broad, and reasonably elementary.  It's a strange book in that it's really not
written at any one level--if you've heard of something called unique factorization, you'll find
the first few chapters easygoing material, but the algebraic sophistication rises slowly but
surely throughout the book.  Eventually you need to be comfortable with rings, fields and
Galois theory at the undergraduate level, but they tell you at the beginning of the chapter
when they require more background than before.  There's an awful lot in here; this was my
course text for Math 242 and I used it as one of the texts in a reading class on number theory,
and I still haven't read through all the chapters.  It's a great example of a book in which the
authors have tried and succeeded in bringing advanced material down to the undergraduate level.
Some good historical notes, as any self-respecting number theory text should contain.
Recommended highly.

#### Burn, *A pathway into number theory*

[MR 97g:11001](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=97g%3A11001)

**[Ben Blander]** The book is composed entirely of exercises leading the reader through all the
elementary theorems of number theory.  Can be tedious (you get to verify, say, Fermat's little
theorem for maybe 5 different sets of numbers) but a good way to really work through the
beginnings of the subject on one's own.

#### Hardy/Wright, *Introduction to number theory*

[MR 81i:10002](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=81i%3A10002)

This is the classic, and Hardy is one of the great expository writers of mathematics.  However,
I remember that the last time I looked at this book it made no sense to me.  If you like number
theory you should probably at least look at it.

**[Pete Clark]** Oh, here I must fervently disagree (well, okay, maybe it didn't make sense to
you at the time, but please go ahead and look again).  I say that *any* student of mathematics
should have this book on their shelf.  Here's H/W's game: they explain number theory to people
who can follow mathematical proofs but have no prior exposure to the subject or *any* advanced
machinery whatsoever--hmm, maybe a little calculus at times, but not always.  The one thing
they do use is a little asymptotic growth notation, i.e., O, o, and the squiggly line, and for
some reason they assume that people will know all about this without much comment.  I seem to
recall that one chapter towards the beginning is confusing because of this, and when I first
bought the book it stymied me (I was sixteen at the time).  But it's written so that you don't
have to read it in order: they develop just enough theory about almost every branch of
(elementary) number theory so that you can see interesting theorems proved.  I have jumped
around a lot, but over the years I think I've read almost every chapter.  I really think it's
the #1 "cultural enrichment" book for math students.

#### Chandrasekharan, *Introduction to analytic number theory*

[MR 40 #2593](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=40+%232593)

**[Pete Clark]** Recommended to me by none other than Professor Narasimhan himself, it's
actually a very elementary and readable introduction to the classic theorems of analytic number
theory: Chebyshev's Theorem, Bertrand's Postulate, uniform distribution, Dirichlet's Theorem
and the Prime Number Theorem.  Requires epsilonics and just a little bit of complex function
theory.

#### Apostol, *Introduction to analytic number theory*

[MR 55 #7892](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=55+237892)

**[Pete Clark]** If you've been reading this list, you know from Chris that Apostol writes
terribly dry books.  I've never read anything by him but this one, and it's fine, a bit more
elementary than Chandrasekharan and easier to get your hands on (Apostol is a UTM;
Chandrasekharan is an out of print Springer international edition).  It starts out with a nice
introduction to arithmetic functions, including the convolution product, and it covers much the
same as the above, only a bit less briskly.  A quick route to the proofs of the greatest
theorems of 19th century mathematics.
