# Intermediate - Point-set topology

#### Munkres, *Topology: a first course*

[MR 57 #4063](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=57+%234063)

Munkres's book is a wonderful first encounter with topology; in fact it begins slowly enough to
be a first encounter with abstract mathematics (after a traditional advanced calculus course).
Every abstraction is carefully motivated, and there are tons of examples, pictures, and
exercises.  This is one of those books you could hand to a bright student of any age who knew
some calculus (not a bad book to choose if you're coming back to mathematics at age 35).  Most
of the book is the traditional analysis-topology material, but there is a long last chapter on
the fundamental group which covers enough to prove the Jordan curve theorem. (Note: in the
second edition, not yet reviewed by MR, the material on algebraic topology has been
substantially expanded.)

**[PC]** Yes, Munkres deserves to be the standard undergraduate point-set book.  It doesn't
have everything, but it has most of the standard topics and it's relentlessly clear.

#### Willard, *General topology*

[MR 41 #9173](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=41+%239173)

But Willard is my topology book of choice.  The level of abstraction is deliberately higher,
and the book is better organized as a reference than Munkres.  It's not nearly as friendly, but
it's still clear and well-written (I think an unclear point-set topology book is probably no
longer a point-set topology book).  Willard is probably the best modern reference for
analysis-topology, where "modern" means "excluding Kelley" (see below).  You can learn from it
too; it's organized bite-size like a Rudin book, so you can prove all but the hard theorems on
your own (I did this with an initial segment, and learned a lot).

#### Kelley, *General topology*

[MR 51 #6681](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=51+%236681)

**[PS]** Let me just say that Kelley's book on topology is horribly old-fashioned--I know
because my advisor is forcing me to read it.  Half the topics are things which I don't think
are as important as they used to be.  Nets, filters?  I guess they're interesting in and of
themselves.  On the upside, it does have a nice appendix covering the rudiments of set theory.

**[CJ]** It is old-fashioned, but it's still the best book on topology for functional analysis,
bar none.  Nets are surprisingly necessary in infinite-dimensional topological vector spaces!
The occasional proof is easier to read once recast in modern language, but doing so is a good
learning exercise anyway.  And Kelley has the nice habit (emulated less successfully by
Willard) of treating substantial pieces of analysis as exercises; two of the exercises to
Chapter 2 are titled "Integration theory, junior grade" and "Integration theory, utility
grade".  It's really an analysis book disguised as a point-set topology book, but then much of
functional analysis is really general topology on spaces that happen to be vector spaces too.

#### Steen/Seebach, *Counterexamples in topology*

[MR 96k:54001](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=96k%3A54001)

This is a topology 'anticourse': a collection of all the screwed-up topological spaces which
provide limiting counterexamples to all those point-set topology theorems with complicated
hypotheses.  It's a classic just for the content, but pretty well written too.  This book and
Gelbaum/Olmsted (above) are two parts of what should someday be the big book of counterexamples
to everything.  Read it and see just what you avoid by sticking to differentiable manifolds.

**[BR]** Steen and Seebach have catalogued 143 of the most disgusting pathological topological
creatures.  They are invaluable for when you're first learning point set topology and need to
understand why the definitions are necessary.  They can also come in handy on tests: I used the
one-point compactification of an uncountable discrete space three times on my Math 262 final.
The text used for 262, Munkres, relies on three counterexamples to disprove everything: the
Sorgenfrey line, S_Omega, and I x I in the dictionary order. Steen and Seebach let you know
that there are tons of other beastly topological spaces which violate the laws of common sense.

#### Dugundji, *Topology*

[MR 57 #17581](http://www.ams.org/mathscinet-getitem?mr=57+%2317581)

**[YU]**This is a point-set topology book.  Less elementary than Munkres, but useful as a
reference book for grad students.
